They drove up in front of our car
in a Jeep with tinted windows
and blocked the road.
Several masked men with automatic weapons
jumped out and shouted, “Don’t move!”
They twisted my arms behind my back
and pushed me up against the hood of my car.
This interview was filmed in July 2019.
Feliks Makhammadiyev described his arrest
and his life in the detention center,
where he spent almost a year.
At that time, no one imagined
that just two months later
a court would find him guilty
of organizing extremist activity
and imprison him
along with five fellow believers.
In December 2019,
the Saratov Regional Court
dismissed the appeal filed by the Witnesses
and upheld the verdict.
Early in February, five of the six
convicted Jehovah’s Witnesses
were sent to Penal Colony No. 1 in Orenburg.
Upon their arrival on February 6,
they were beaten by prison guards.
The guards forced them to their knees
and started beating them
with clubs and fists and kicking them.
Feliks was beaten the most,
probably because he was smiling
when they went in
—because he’s always smiling.
Feliks Makhammadiyev was diagnosed
with a broken rib
and a damaged lung and kidney.
Aleksey and Tatyana Budenchuk
have two young children.
The family lives in a small house,
and their main source of income
comes from their small farm.
But on June 12, 2018,
the lives of the entire family
suddenly changed when a group
of armed officers raided their home.
I saw that someone wearing a mask and uniform
went into the garage.
A few seconds later, he came up the stairs,
forced me to the floor, and handcuffed me.
Afterward, they took Mom and Dad away.
I was afraid that I might
never see them again.
Eventually Tatyana was released,
but two days later, a court sentenced
Aleksey to a detention center.
Konstantin Bazhenov and Feliks Makhammadiyev
were sent to the same detention center.
Three other Witnesses were forced
to sign a document
agreeing not to leave
their city of residence.
I spent a total of 11 months and 8 days
in the detention center.
Then, on May 20, 2019,
we were released from there
and were placed
under a different form
of restriction
—a ban on certain activities.
In July 2019, the criminal trial
against the six Witnesses
from the city of Saratov began.
The charges read in black and white:
“There are no victims,
no harm whatsoever has been done to anyone.”
An individual should be informed
of the accusation against him,
including specific details
about the time and location.
But this document reads like this:
“At an undetermined time
“in an undetermined place
after a certain date,
“somebody came up with the idea
to create an organization
whose activity was banned.”
Eventually all six Witnesses
were found guilty
and sentenced to imprisonment
from two to three and a half years.
The court decision proved to be a real test
for their friends and relatives.
The wives of the six convicted Witnesses
from Saratov
vow to continue to support
their husbands
and to never renounce their faith in God.
In July 2019, in an interview
given to our film crew,
Feliks Makhammadiyev
and Aleksey Budenchuk assured us
that they are not embittered
by the criminal prosecution
and that they view any hardships
they may have to face
as an opportunity to prove
their loyalty to Jehovah.
There were times when it seemed
I couldn’t take it anymore,
but every day I prayed to Jehovah
that he give me
peace and joy for that day.
I am so proud of him!
Not only did he face
the court trial with dignity,
but he continues to bear up with dignity,
and he even helps me to endure.